# Class 2 - State and Props

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## **REACT LIFESTYLE**

Source: [Joshua Blankenship](https://medium.com/@joshuablankenshipnola/react-component-lifecycle-events-cb77e670a093)

- *Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?*
- Render happens first.  ComponentDidMount happens at the end.

- *What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?*
- Mounting happens first, and more specifically applying the constructor (which is part of mounting).

- *Put the following things in the order that they happen: componentDidMount, render, constructor, componentWillUnmount, React Updates*
- Constructor - Render - ReactUpdates - ComponentDidMount - ComponentWillUnmount

- *What does componentDidMount do?*
- It is a function that triggers events to happen after the react element is mounted to the DOM.  In the example on the sources page, the element is connected to YouTube's api and videos are pulled in.

## **REACT STATE VS PROPS**

Source: [Youtube - Web Dev Simplified](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYvD9oBCuJI)

- *What types of things can you pass in the props?*
- Things used to initialize a component, or things that will be displayed to the user.

- *What is the big difference between props and state?*
- State is inside the component where props are handled outside of the component.  Props are passed in, and then we manage state within the component.

- *When do we re-render our application?*
- When we change the state within the component.

- *What are some examples of things that we could store in state?*
- Anything that needs to rerender - like a counter. State is used for information in form's as well.  State is for information that is NOT static and won't change within the component.