# Class 5 - React - Putting it all together

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## Thinking in React

source: [React Docs - Thinking in React](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

- *How would you break a mock into a component heirarchy?*
- Break down the pieces into their smallest parts to figure out how many components you need.
- *What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?*
- The components shouldn't be complex.  They should really only be responsible for doing one thing, and if a component becomes complex, you may want to consider breaking it down into smaller components.
- *What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?*
- A static version is a version that doesn't have any interaction with the user.  It doesn't have state.  It is mostly to make sure the components are connecting correctly and information can be passed in the way you intend.  It is also the time to decouple your components.
- *Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?*
- Need to add state to elements that need to have state.
- *What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?*
- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.
- *How can you identify where state needs to live?*
- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

## Things I want to know more about
- I wan't to have more examples of state and what it can do.  I would like to also learn how to use state in a functional component.