# Class 11 - Mongo and Mongoose

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## **nosql vs sql**

source: [the geek stuff](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)

|SQL|NoSQL|
|:---|:---|
|rational databases|non-rational/distributed database|
|table based|document based, key-value pairs, graphs, wide-column stores|
|preferred schema|dynamic schema for unstructured data|
|good for complex query|dont have standard interfaces aka not good for complex query|
|lots of support for SQL databases|rely on community support|

- *What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?*
- data that can go on a table.  not heirarchical data
- *Give a real world example.*
- an email list
- *What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?*
- heirarchical data
- *Give a real world example.*
- JSON data where information can be nested within information like the movie API data
- *Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?*
- NoSQL
- *Which type of database is best for scalability?*
- SQL

source: [Academind - Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)

- *What does SQL stand for?*
- Structured Query Language
- *What is a realational database?*
- works under assumptions and specific language.  We have multiple tables with related data.
- *What type of structure does a relational database work with?*
- tables
- *What is a ‘schema’?*
- the different fields in our table.  All the data has the same structure and the same fields.  All records in SQL data adhere to the schema. 
- *What is a NoSQL database?*
- stores lots of layered data
- *How does it work?*
- instead of tables - we have collections and documents.  They don't need the same schema.  No applied structure
- *What is inside of a Mongo database?*
- collections and documents
- *Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.*
- MongoDB because you dont have to adhere to a schema or a shape of data.  You can stick data with different keys in the same place.  
- *What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?*
- there isn't any relation between data without building the relationships manually.  it may be harder to find the specific info you need, and you can't even be sure that a data collection or document has the data you need.  you may have duplicate data.
