# Class 3 - Lists, Boxes, Switch Statements, Loops

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## LISTS

- three types of lists: ordered (numbered), unordered (bullets), definition (terms w/ definitions)
- list items are indented by default
- lists can be nested into other lists

|tag|name|description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|`<li>`|list item|identifies one list item in an ordered or unordered list|
|`<ol>`|ordered list|a type of list that numbers list items in sequence|
|`<ul>`|unordered list|a type of list that bullets list items|
|`<dl>`|definition list|a type of list item that uses terms and definitions for creating lists|
|`<dt>`|definition term|a tag used to identify terms within a definition list|
|`<dd>`|definition description|used to define the term listed above it in a definition list|

---

## BOXES

- dimensions can be controled using pixels, percentages and ems.
- dimensions can be limited using minimum and maximum constraints
- **overflow** is a property used for managing content larger than the box it is contained in.  **Hidden** will simply hide content larger than the box and **scroll** will create a scrollbar within the box.
- boxes have 3 properties (border, margin & padding)
  - border - can have styling and made of images ;outside of the border & used to separate boxes
  - margin - creates space between borders
  - padding - added inside the border.  often used to help with legibility.

---

## SWITCH STATEMENTS

- are like if else statements, but better if doing many checks.
- default statements are added to switch statements sort of like an else statement in an if else statement.  It will be used if no other check is true.
- **type cooercion** - Javascript tries to avoid errors by converting data types.  Because of this, Javascript is considered to use *weak typing*; meaning no data type needs to be declared.

---

## LOOPS

- loops check for a true/false response and if true, the code will run, otherwise the code is skipped.

>### The Three Types of Loops:
>- **FOR LOOPS** - for a specific number of times to run.  For loops have three parts: initialization, a condition, and a variable update.
>- **WHILE LOOPS** - While loops are given a condition and will run until the condition is met.  These are used when we dont necessarily know how many times the code will run.
>- **DO WHILE LOOPS** - very similar to a while loop, but the code instructions  given before the condition so the code will always run at least once.