# Class 2 - Text, CSS, basic JavaScript, Decisions & Loops

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## **TEXT**

|Tag #|Tag Name|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|`<h1>, <h2>,<h3>` ...|heading|there are 6 levels of headings, and by default they are arranged from largest to smallest numerically|
|`<p>`|paragraph|used for blocks of text.  By default paragraphs are created with space between itself and any other paragraph.|
|`<b>`|bold|used to bold text|
|`i`|italic|used to italicize text|
|`<sup>`|superscript|creates superscript text - for example - exponents.|
|`<sub>`|subscript|creates subscript, like in chemical formulas|
|`<br />`|line break|creates a line break manually.  line breaks are inserted between paragraphs by default|
|`<hr />`|horizontal rule|Similar to a line break, but adds visual break line.  good to use when changing topic or breaking up larger sections.
|`<strong>`|strong|for emphasizing something important.  by default, will bold the text|
|`<em>`|emphasis|for emphasizing meaning.  by default will italicize text|
|`<blockquote>`|blockquote|used for long quotes.  will break the text and put the quote in its own block|
|`<q>`|quote|for quoting text within a paragraph.|
|`<abbr>`|abbreviation|used to specify abbreviated words.  Use in conjunction with a title attrubute to spell out the whole abbreviation|
|`<cite>`|citation|for referencing other work - ex: titles of books or research paper.  defaults to italics.|
|`<dfn>`|define|indicates the first time a word or concept is defined.|
|`<address>`|address|used as a spot for the webpages author contact info|
|`<del>`|delete|identify text that is deleted.  puts a line through the text|
|`<ins>`|insert|identifies added text.  underlines the text.|
|`<s>`|strikethrough|puts a line through the text|

- whitespace - when adding spaces in HTML text - HTML only recognizes the first space between characters.  All other spaces are ignored.  this is called **white space collapsing**
-**empty elements** are elements that dont have a closing tag or content within them.
- visual editors edit text with buttons, but have code views to edit code manually.
- **semantic elements** add information but don't affect the layout or structure of a page.

---

## **CSS**

- at its most basic definition - CSS creates rules for styling a webpage.  It does this by taking a styling rule - like making all paragraphs have green text - and it associates them with the html element.  in this case the element would be the `<p>` or paragraph element.
- in the green paragraph example.  you start with a **selector** which in this case is **p**.  After the selector is the **declaration** which is surrounded by curly brackets **{}**.   Inside the curly brackets are the **properties** which itentify the style we are changing. followed by a colon and then the **value** we are assiging to the property. and ending in a semicolon  
- A `<link>` element is inserted into the head of the HTML.  This is where we put a link to an external CSS file.  A link has 3 attributes: *href* - where we put the link.  *type* - identifying the document as text/css.  *rel* - telling us the relationship between the HTML and the CSS is a stylesheet.
- a page can have multiple stylesheets.
- `<style>` - this tag can be used to insert CSS directly into the HTML.
- CSS files are read from top to bottom.  This means if you have two rules set up that contradict each other - the later rule will be the one informing the final document.

---

## **BASIC JAVASCRIPT**

- **script** - a series of instructions given to the computer to complete a task.
- **statement** - one instruction in a script.
- javascript is case sensitive
- **code blocks** - areas of code surrounded by curly brackets.  They may contain one or multiple instructions, or statements.
- comments should be added to code to describe its behavior and to make it understandable to others.  A comment that takes up multiple lines can be bookended by **/*** and ***/**.  Single line comments have double forward slashes in front of them **//**
- we create **variables** which allow us to contain information.
- to declare a variable we start with the variable keyword **let** followed by the **variable name**.  Later, you can use **assignment operators** to give values to the variable.

>### Data types
>  - **numeric** - for storing numbers
>  - **string** - for storing letters and characters.  surround the string with >single quotes.
>  - **boolean** - true and false data.

- to use a quote within a string you use a backward slash before the quotation mark.  **\\**

>Rules for naming variables:
>- the variable has to start with a dollarsign, underscore or letter - NOT a number
>- you cannot use a dash or a period in a variable name
>- you cannot use keywords to name a variable like var or let
>- variables are case sensitive
>- describe what kind of information the variable stores in the name.
>- use camel case to name variables.  (standard in javascript)

- arrays are used to store multiple values when we don't necessarily know how many items will be in a list.
- in an array - the values are treated like a numbered list - starting with the first item being item 0 (not item 1)

## **DECISIONS AND LOOPS**

- similar to a flowchart - we make checks to analyze the current condition to tell the computer what steps to follow.
- **comparison operators** tell the computer whether or not something is true or false.
- **logical operators** allow for multiple comparisons at once.
- an **if statement** checks for a condition and if that condition is met it will execute the code in the curly braces, otherwise skip that set of code.
- using else after an if will give instructions to everything that isnt true in regards to the if condition.
