# Class 11 - **Event Driven Applications**

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

## **Review, Research and Discussion**

### *Why is access control important?*

Because if anyone could manipulate and interact with any resource or data in an app, the app would constantly be broken.  By not using access control, one would be limiting control and/or security in the app.

### *Describe an application that would need access control*

Any application in which different people should have different rights and abilities.  This includes any app that requires an account.  If you have an account on a social media site, it would a pretty bad application if anyone could edit, delete and post on your behalf.  Access control allows us to assign roles, for example "account owner" giving the account owner the ability to do all these tasks, provided that they are authenticated and authorized.

### *What is a role used for?*

A role is a way to set rights and abilities to a role, and then assign those roles to users.  This way, individuals aren't given rights and abilities, but rather their role controls those rights and abilities.  This makes it easier to standardize rule sets for different types of roles people could have in an application.

### *Why is role based access control more scalable than discretionary or mandatory access control?*

Role-based access control allows more flexibility than discretionary or mandatory access control.  Discretionary access control sets access to the individual and that would be very difficult to manage as the app grew.  Mandatory access control is heirarchical, meaning it would be harder to add different types of roles that don't fall into a heirarchy.  Role-based access is flexible in the sense that more roles can be created and altered based on the evolution and scale of the application.

---

## **Vocabulary**

|Term|Description|
|:--|:--|
|Authorization|The process of proving identity - you are who you say you are|
|Role Based Access Control|Roles are created to define sets of access and those roles can be assigned to users|
|Capabilities|The definitions of each role - what each role has access and control over|

---

## **Links**

[Digital Guide - Mandatory Access Control](https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/server/security/what-is-mandatory-access-control-mac/)  
[Nist - Discretionary Access Control](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/discretionary_access_control)  