# Class 36 - Application State with Redux

---

## Review, Research and Discussion

### *What are the advantages of storing tokens in “Cookies” vs “Local Storage”*

Cookies store small pieces of data in text files.  They can store data that makes rendering web pages faster, by saving data.  Cookies have an expiration date, so they aren't a permanent form of storage.  If you are storing a token with cookies, presumably that is safer, because your cookies will be cleared.  

Local storage, on the other hand, is a more permanent solution to storing data in a browser.  Local storage also doesn't need to be sent every time with every HTTP request.  This isn't necessarily what we want if we are using tokens for authenticating HTTP routes.

source: [medium](https://medium.com/swlh/cookies-vs-localstorage-whats-the-difference-d99f0eb09b44)

### *Explain 3rd party cookies.*

Third party cookies allow different websites to remember your preferences or items you viewed.  They allow a site to deliver a more tailored experience encouraging you to engage with their site or their products.

When you click on a product, the site makes a request to their own server and passes back information in the form of a cookie.  That cookie can then be used to place ads on other sites for their own products.  This is how we get ads for products we viewed previously.

source: [norton](https://us.norton.com/internetsecurity-privacy-internet-privacy-third-party-cookies.html)

### *How do pixel tags work?*

Tags are small functions that fire off on page load.  The tag grabs information from your site visit, and sends it off to a third party where the information is recorded and processed.  This is used for analytics and data.

source: [taginspector](https://taginspector.com/articles/marketing-tags-and-pixels-form-and-function/)

|Term|Description|
|:--|:--|
|cookies|temporary pieces of data stored as strings on your local machine.|
|authorization|the process of being let through the gate of an HTTP request|
|access control|a way to manage who can access which HTTP routes|
|conditional rendering|logic that will only render components if certain conditions change.|
