# Class 01 - Node Ecosystem, TDD, CI/CD

[Home](https://justinhamerly.github.io/reading-notes/)

---

*Describe (in plain English) what Array.map() does*\
the array map method iterates over each item of an array and will perform some function you tell it to onto each item.  It pushes the new items into a new array and then the new array is returned.

*Describe (in plain English) what Array.reduce() does*\
the reduce method will iterate over each item in an array and manipulates the data by using an accumulator.  it uses a callback function to reduce all the data in the array into a single value, and returns that

*Provide code snippets showing how to use superagent() to fetch data from a URL and log the result*\
*With normal Promise .then() syntax*\
```
superagent.get('url')
  .then(response => {
    console.log(response.body);
  })
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

*Again with async / await syntax*\
```
async function asyncFunctionExample(){
  let data = await superagent.get('url');
  console.log(data.body);
}

asyncFunctionExample();
```

*Explain promises as though you were mentoring a Code 301 level student*\
A good analogy I remember from 301 is a promise is like ordering food and getting a number for your order that they will call when it is ready.  In the meantime, you are free to do other things, but the ticket you are holding is your promise to get something.  Javascript promises are like this, we can tell the code to do something and eventually give us back something when it has something, but in the meantime, we will continue to run the rest of the script.

*Are all callback functions considered to be Asynchronous? Why or Why Not?*\
No, callback functions are simply functions we feed as a parameter into another function.  The behavior can be asynchronous, but it isn't necessarily true.
