# Class 42 - Ethics in Tech

---

## Ethics in the Workplace

source: [Amazon Workers Demand Jeff Bezos Cancel Face Recognition Contracts With Law Enforcement](https://gizmodo.com/amazon-workers-demand-jeff-bezos-cancel-face-recognitio-1827037509)

I don't believe it is effective for Amazon workers - the people who enable/create Amazon services - to try to plead to Jeff Bezos to not sell products to certain groups of people.  If you are willing to work for Amazon, I think that you should also understand that you are working for a giant corporation that values profit over people.  I say that objectively as possible - I think Amazon has the right to sell software to whatever company it wishes.  I think its more of a problem that people will complain about Amazon and its actions, but continue to support Amazon out of convenience to themselves.  

## Ethics in Technology

source: [Morality, ethics of a self-driving car: Who decides who lives, dies?](https://www.freep.com/story/money/cars/2017/11/21/self-driving-cars-ethics/804805001/)

I am in full support of self-driving cars.  I see why people are skeptical in terms of entrusting a vehicle to make ethical decisions.  However, I think if self-driving cars are programmed in any way, that behavior will be relatively predictable in comparison to our current situation.  Right now, every car on the road behaves independently, relying on every individual person to make decisions when it comes to how to drive safely and respond to a dangerous situation.  The more consistent this behavior is, the less accident prone driving will be.  Of course accidents will happen, but I think it is the flaw of human hubris to believe that individuals controlling vehicles is less accident prone than programming predictable behavior into a car.  
